So head back over we just did,
Here, Uncontrolled forms.
We are now down here to
ten uncontrolled forms and
we're gonna do class components, yeah,
we're gonna do class components.
So if you go into our Adopt Me and you
click on one of these pets, It'd be nice
if there was some way to visualize all the
photos for all the individual pets, right?
So we're gonna do that really quick and
I'm gonna show you the older way of
doing components which
are called class components.
I used to teach a lot more class
components and as time has gone by,
I teach class components less than
less and now it's kind of a footnote.
It used to be very front and center.
If you go teach or if you go take
the first version of my class,
it's all class components because
functional components didn't exist yet.
So please create a file
called Carousel.jsx.
Carousel is one of those words that if I
look at it too long, it somaticizes, and
I can no longer spell it.
Because it's like that doesn't
look like a word anymore, right?
So import Component,
capital C component from react.
We're gonna make a thing
called class carousel from,
sorry, extends component.
Okay, this is gonna have a state Of
the active photo that's on the page.
If I have ten photos by default,
the first one will be the active one,
the hero one, if you will.
Will give us some default props.
So if you don't give it anything, Images,
http://pets-images.dev-apis.com,
/pets/none.jpg Okay,
and then we're gonna give
it a render function here.
A render function is basically
like the function body of
the components we've been writing so far.
Huge key here, no hooks,
class components and hooks do not mix.
You either have hooks or
you have class components inevitable.
So const (active) = this.state.
Const ( images) = this.props.
So, whereas before I had use state to
get state, you're gonna keep it on this,
which is mutable state and
the class component.
And this.props as you might imagine
is what is passed in from the parent
component.
Okay, and then here,
we're going to return our markup.
Div className='carousel'.
Img src=(images(active).
Alt = animal hero.
Whatever you wanna call that.
div className =,
carousel-smaller cuz I
was good at CSS classes.
Then we're gonna do an images.map,
photo, index.
And this is gonna return an image.
Key = photo cuz those
will always be unique.
src= photo.
Name=, So,
if the index is triple equal
to the one that is active,
then it has an active class, otherwise,
it has no class,
just like meme has no class.
Okay, alt= animal thumbnail.
Okay?
Then down at the bottom make sure
you export default carousel.
Let's get this rendering first and
then I'll come back and
explain everything that
just happened here.
So go to the details page, please.
I want you to import
carousel from carousel and,
First component inside div.details.
So this one right here, we're gonna say
carousel with images= pet.images.
So this is what we made.
We had the hero image here, right?
And then these are the little
thumbnails here.
You can see that this first one Is a
little grayed out because it's the active
image, right?
The rest of these don't have that.
And in a second, we'll make it so
you can click on the other ones and
you can rotate with the hero images but
we're not there yet.
Let's hop back over to Carousel and
have a chat about class components.
The one absolute must, I guess
there's probably two absolute must.
It's gotta be extend or react.component,
which is what this does.
The second thing is every class
component has a render function.
Unexceptionally must
know two ways about it.
It must have a render function.
You don't have to return markup or
anything like that, but
you do have to have it.
I guess you have to return
something either, but
it can return null if
you really wanted it to.
Wouldn't make any sense,
but it's possible.
Okay, it has this.props which
if you look at details,
this.props is how we get images, right?
Whereas with the render functions we
got it from being passed in as a props,
it's like the parameters.
Here in a class component and
carousel.jsx it comes from this.props.
So in other words,
context in the sense of like this,
this becomes very important
in class components.
I used to have to go very in
the depth when I'm teaching react of
what react context is and what JavaScript
context and things like that is.
I don't necessarily have
to do that anymore.
This.props, just like props that come
in from a function is immutable.
I cannot say this.props.images
equals blah doesn't work.
If you wanna have default props,
you have to understand what
static default props is.
This is like, hey, if you don't
pass anything into the carousel,
which let's just see what that looks like.
If I delete this, then I get
this adopt me placeholder image,
right, which came from this, right?
That's what the default prompts are for.
What's nice about that is now I can
just assume that I always have images,
whether or not the user provides it to me.
Okay, so that's great.
There's no hooks, so
how do we keep track of state.
State, I guess I kind of gave
myself away there, right?
You keep track of it with state.
So state is mutable, right?
So I can change state using
a function called this.set state.
We'll see set state here in just a second
cuz we're gonna add some interactivity but
just know that state is how you keep track
of like internal state to a component.
Basically, the same thing that
you would use use state for.
That's what state is for here.
And something I haven't shown you yet, but
there are things called
life cycle methods.
So a lifecycle method is we used use
effects to make a request by saying
something like use effect, right?
And we gave it an empty array which said
only run this once at the beginning.
If you want something like that for
a class component you would say,
componentDidMount.
This function will get run once at
the beginning of every time that
it mounts onto the DOM and
then never gets run again.
If you wanna run it every
time something updates,
there's componentDidUpdate, right?
This will get run every single
time that's state gets updated.
If you wanna run something after
the component has unmounted,
you can say componentDid, Willunmount.
There it is.
There should component update,
componentDidCatch.
We'll do that one here in just a second.
There's a bunch of lifecycle methods here.
So use effect basically
combined all those lifecycle
methods down into this use effect method.
With class components, it's broken out
into various different functions that
describe the lifecycle of a component.
I actually really like this.
I miss writing react this way, but
no one writes it like this anymore.
It is occasionally useful.
They said it's not deprecated.
You can use this forever.
It's why I wanted to show you
how to write code like this.
Some people still like it,
like you can write code like this, but
I would say generally the react world
has moved to using hooks most of time.
>> How common is it to see a project
where some components are class-based and
some are using hooks?
>> Very common, it certainly
depends on how old the project is.
If the project is six or seven years old,
extremely common because back then
there was no way to write that.
I would say these days if you're
doing a greenfield project,
I would say most people just
always write function components.
There's a couple things that still
function components can't do,
like we'll do errors,
which you can't do any other way.
But otherwise, certainly,
you'll see some here and there.
For me, if you're working with me,
I'm fine with you using both of these
whenever you've wanna curse students like
this is going to handle this
much better than the other one.
I don't know maybe you have something
where you have a really complicated
component, didmount and putting that all
in effect, doesn't make sense to you.
Makes a ton of sense to me.
I'm very into that you
think that's a good idea.
I think there are probably other companies
where they would tell you just, well,
just use an effect.
Let's taste at that point.
Do you have a question, Dustin?
>> Yeah, I think you'd just
kinda answered it, but it was,
when should you use a class component
over a functional component?
>> Taste at this point.
There's no distinct advantage here.
There's some super fine tuning you
can do with performance with a class
component that is maybe more
difficult to accomplish.
Cuz there's a thing called
componentshouldupdate,
shouldcomponentupdate, this function here.
Where you can get really fine grain of
like rerender, don't rerender, right?
And if that's important to you when
I'm kind of curious what you're
doing cuz that would be very specialized,
but plausible.
There's no way to as well fine-tune
this in a class component,
sorry, in a function component.
So that's one to keep in mind.